.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.TH MARS-SIM 1 "July 1, 2014"
.SH NAME
mars-sim \- A simulation of future human settlement of the red 
planet.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mars-sim
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly documents the \fBMars Simulation Project\fP, a Mars 
settlement simulator.  The Mars Simulation Project is a free software Java 
project to create a simulation of future human settlement of Mars.
.PP
The Mars Simulation Project is a social simulation, modeling the human 
behavior of scientists, engineers, doctors, technicians, etc. as they go about 
their day-to-day lives in the virtual Martian environment. There are many 
different settlements spread out across the planet, ranging from simple 
4-person initial landing habitats to more mature bases hosting dozens of people
and advanced buildings. The settlers spend much of their time maintaining
their settlements, growing crops in their greenhouses, and
manufacturing needed parts and equipment from collected local
resources.  They also go out on rover missions to explore and study
the surrounding area, prospect and mine mineral concentrations, and
trade with their neighboring settlements. Mars is a harsh and
dangerous world, and the settlers have to contend with accidents,
equipment malfunctions, illnesses, injuries, and even death.  Survival
depends on the settlers working together, building relationships,
improving skills and balancing the needs of their settlements.
.PP
http://mars-sim.sourceforge.net
.SH OVERVIEW
The Mars Simulation Project will start up in a window and a new simulation 
configuration dialog will appear. The user can select settlements to be used 
in the simulation (or use the default configuration). The new simulation will 
start and a new user tutorial internal window will display, explaining the 
basics of the simulation user interface.
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written for a Debian GNU/Linux system by Scott Davis
<scud1@users.sourceforge.net> and edited by Lars Naesbye Christensen <lars@naesbye.dk>.
