.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.TH MARS-SIM 1 "01 Jan 2020" "version 0.5"
.SH NAME
mars-sim \- A Simulation of the Future Human Settlement on the Red Planet.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mars-sim
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP This manual page briefly documents the \fBMars Simulation Project\fP, a Martian
settlement simulator.
.PP
.TP The Mars Simulation Project is a Java based open source project that simulates the
activities of the first generation of settlers on Mars in a virtual environment.
Each agent has various human-like characteristics, capable of making distinct decisions
on a virtual Mars and interacting with one another on the surface of Mars.
.PP
Modeling and Simulation
.TP As a simulation, mars-sim models the professional interaction between settlers
with in terms of their job type, role type, technical skills, personality, natural
attributes, prior training, preferences and relationship with one another. It also attempts
to model various aspects of the environment surrounding the human settlement as scientific
as possible.
.PP
Settlers are subject to fatigue, hunger, stress and other health factors and can get sick.
Radiation exposure is accounted for and EVA operations are prevented during Solar Events.
Meteorite Impact are usually infrequent. Greenhouse farming is crucial for survival.
.PP
.TP Player may create numerous settlements spreading across the surface of Mars such as a
simple 4-person initial landing base, a mining site, or a more self-contained settlement
hosting higher functions.
.PP
.TP Each settlement has a command structure, a developmental objective, and it's only
internal checks and balances to set the Value Points (VP) of each resources.
.PP
Tasks and Missions
.TP Initially most settlers will spend much of their time learning to "live off the land".
They will be busy in maintenance, ensuring life support resources are well balanced,
growing crops in greenhouses, and manufacturing needed parts and equipment in workshops.
.PP
.TP Settlers will also go out on rover missions to explore and study surrounding landscapes,
prospect and mine minerals, and trade with neighboring settlements via trading missions.
Summary
.TP Mars is a harsh world but is certainly less unforgiving than our Moon. Settlers come
face-to-face with accidents, equipment malfunctions, illnesses, injuries, and even death.
Survival depends on how well they work together, improve their survival skills and balance
individual vs. settlement needs. See project website at http://mars-sim.sourceforge.net and
https://github.com/mars-sim/mars-sim for details on this open source project.
.SH OVERVIEW
.TP At the start, a spinning Mars globe appears under the title/version. By hovering the
mouse cursor over it, the main menu options appear on the lower right. Select "New Sim" and the
Config Editor will pop open. In the editor, user may add/delete settlements and configure
initial conditions. Click the person button to open the Crew Editor to customize the alpha
crew members and choose what settlement to send the crew. Click the start button will
begin the simulation. A Main Window will appear with the help browser open. User may go
through the tutorial/user guide that explain the concept and basic mechanics of the mars-sim.
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written for Debian GNU/Linux system by Scott Davis
<scud1@users.sourceforge.net> and edited by Lars Naesbye Christensen <lars@naesbye.dk>
and Manny Kung <mannykung@gmail.com>.
