.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.TH MARS-SIM 1 "Jan 21, 2017"
.SH NAME
mars-sim \- A Simulation of the Future Human Settlement on the Red Planet.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mars-sim
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly documents the \fBMars Simulation Project\fP, a Mars 
settlement simulator.  The Mars Simulation Project is a free software Java 
project to create a simulation of future human settlement of Mars.
.PP
The Mars Simulation Project is a social simulation modeling the professional 
relationship and behaviors of scientists, engineers, doctors, technicians, etc. 
as they go about their day-to-day lives in a virtual Martian environment. There 
are many different settlements spreading out across the planet, ranging from simple 
4-person initial landing habitats to more mature bases hosting dozens of people
and advanced buildings. The settlers spend much of their time maintaining
their settlements, growing crops in their greenhouses, and
manufacturing needed parts and equipment from collected local
resources.  They also go out on rover missions to explore and study
the surrounding area, prospect and mine mineral concentrations, and
trade with their neighboring settlements. Mars is a harsh and
dangerous world, and the settlers have to contend with accidents,
equipment malfunctions, illnesses, injuries, and even death.  Survival
depends on the settlers working together, building relationships,
improving skills and balancing the needs of their settlements.
.PP
http://mars-sim.sourceforge.net
.SH OVERVIEW
At the start, a spinning Mars globe appear with the main menu. By hovering the mouse 
cursor over it, the menu options appear. Select "New Sim" and the Configuration Editor 
will pop open. In the Configuration Editor, user may add/delete settlements and configure 
the initial conditions. Click the person button to open the Crew Editor to customize 
the settlers. Click the center button will start the simulation. At the start of the 
simulation, a help browser will open and user is encouraged to go through the tutorial 
and user guide that explains the basics of the simulation.
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written for Debian GNU/Linux system by Scott Davis
<scud1@users.sourceforge.net> and edited by Lars Naesbye Christensen <lars@naesbye.dk>
and Manny Kung <mannykung@gmail.com>.
